user-guide/navigate.md, before:

---
order: 80
icon: milestone
---

# Navigate

It's easy to navigate around Pozi using gestures and controls that are common to popular web map applications.

## Pan

Click and hold down the left-mouse button, and drag the map to your desired location.

## Zoom

### Incremental zooming

To zoom in and out within your map view:

* position your cursor in the map on the location of interest and use your mouse scroll wheel, or
* click the `+` and `-` buttons on right side of the map

### Fine-grained zoom control

If you want to zoom quickly to a feature instead of stepping through individual zoom levels, or if you want to fill a map precisely with an area of interest, use Shift-click zoom.

In the below example, we want to fill the map with a park for the purpose of printing a map, even though the area doesn't fit well with the standard zoom levels.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.979166666666664% + 44px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://app.supademo.com/embed/UXkUK0r-gTdgg0id3_QGO" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>

</br>

### Touch Device Features

On touch devices and laptop trackpads, use a pinch motion with two fingers to zoom the map.

Commit message:

Add instructions for fine grain zoom
to complement the demo graphic

user-guide/navigate.md, after:

---
order: 80
icon: milestone
---

# Navigate

It's easy to navigate around Pozi using gestures and controls that are common to popular web map applications.

## Pan

Click and hold down the left-mouse button, and drag the map to your desired location.

## Zoom

### Incremental zooming

To zoom in and out within your map view:

* position your cursor in the map on the location of interest and use your mouse scroll wheel, or
* click the `+` and `-` buttons on right side of the map

### Fine-grained zoom control

If you want to zoom quickly to a feature instead of stepping through individual zoom levels, or if you want to fill a map precisely with an area of interest, use Shift-click zoom.

In the below example, we want to fill the map with a park for the purpose of printing a map, even though the area doesn't fit well with the standard zoom levels.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.979166666666664% + 44px); height: 0;"><iframe src="https://app.supademo.com/embed/UXkUK0r-gTdgg0id3_QGO" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>

</br>

Hold down the Shift key on your keyboard, and click and drag the cursor to create a box around your area of interest, then release the cursor. The map will zoom to the area defined by the box.

### Touch Device Features

On touch devices and laptop trackpads, use a pinch motion with two fingers to zoom the map.
