---
---

# 'What's Here' and Other Child Datasets

## Child Datasets

* `"title":` use singular name where practical
* `"showInLayerControl":` set to `false` to prevent dataset from being listed in the layer panel.
* `"group":` leave blank or undefined

### Lookups

A child dataset can be used to fetch data about a selected feature from a separate source such as a database or web service. This enables Pozi to return one or more (or none) records that are associated with the selected feature.

Use cases:

* property owner
* inspections
* defects
* maintenance
* photos

The dataset's `url` will contain a request to a dataset, plus a filter parameter for selecting related rows from the source dataset.

#### Filters

* WFS OGC: `FILTER=<Filter><PropertyIsEqualTo><PropertyName>` ChildDatasetIDField `</PropertyName><Literal>[` ParentDatasetIDField `]</Literal></PropertyIsEqualTo></Filter>`
* VRT: `&options=-where|` ChildDatasetIDField ` in ('[` ParentDatasetIDField `]')`
* WFS CQL
* CKAN

==- WFS OGC Example

This example uses the selected bridge's `AssetID` value to do a lookup on a table of associated records in a defect table. The defect table is registered as a WFS endpoint in QGIS.

```json
{
  "title": "Bridge Defects",
  "parent": "Bridges",
  "type": "GeoJSON",
  "localDataSource": true,
  "showInLayerControl": false,
  "config": {
    "spatial": {
      "loader": "geojson",
      "url": "https://bs-gis.pozi.com/iis/qgisserver?MAP=//bs-intra/GIS/System/POZI/QGIS%20Projects/Child%20Datasets.qgs&SERVICE=WFS&VERSION=1.1.0&REQUEST=GetFeature&OUTPUTFORMAT=application%2Fjson&TYPENAME=POZI_BridgeDefects&FILTER=<Filter><PropertyIsEqualTo><PropertyName>AssetID</PropertyName><Literal>[AssetID]</Literal></PropertyIsEqualTo></Filter>",
      "id": "AssetID",
      "label": "DefectDescription"
    }
  }
}
```

==-

### Spatial Intersection

When a dataset is configured with the `"pointOnSurface": true` transformer function, Pozi filters the dataset to only those records that intersect with the parent geometry.

```json
  "config": {
    "transformer": {
      "pointOnSurface": true
    }
  }
```

The `pointOnSurface` calculation is done in the browser after it has fetched all the records from the source. This can cause inefficiencies if the source data contains a lot of records.

## *What's Here* Datasets

*What's Here* is a special case of a child dataset whose "parent" is the geometry generated by the user's map click (or polygon drawn from the `Select by region` tool).

```json
  "parent": "Whats Here",
```

Notes:

* the `"Whats Here"` value in the config does NOT contain an apostrophe
* setting the parent to "Whats Here" is also currently used as a hack for WMS layers to force the results of any `GetFeatureInfo` request to appear in the info panel (however there is [a plan](https://trello.com/c/NuPIDgSL/18-enable-wms-layers-getfeatureinfo-results-to-be-displayed-in-info-panel-by-default) to avoid the need for this hack)

### Static Datasets

If the dataset is a static GeoJSON, the configuration requires the `"pointOnSurface": true` transformer function.

*To do: add example*

### Dynamic Datasets

If the dataset is an API source such as WFS, CKAN or Street View, the request URL needs to include parameter(s) which describes the What's Here geometry:
* `$cqlgeometry`
* `$wkt`
* `$esriGeometry` & `$esriGeometryType`
* `$longitude` & `$latitude`

A complete list of geometry parameters is available [here](https://github.com/pozi/PoziApp/blob/feature-config-manager-improvements/app/src/map/GetGeometryProperties.js#L66-L80).

*To do: add example*
