pages/map-projections.md, before:

---
route: /map-projections
layout: central
---

# Map Projections

## Commonly Used Projections in Australia

In our work, we constantly need to look up the EPSG codes based on a projection description, or vice versa. Here’s a list of the ones we commonly encounter in our work across Australia.

| EPSG | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [EPSG:3857](https://epsg.io/3857) | GlobalMercator |
| [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) | WGS84 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:4283](https://epsg.io/4283) | GDA94 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:28354](https://epsg.io/28354) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:28355](https://epsg.io/28355) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:28356](https://epsg.io/28356) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:3111](https://epsg.io/3111) | GDA94 / Vicgrid |
| [EPSG:32754](https://epsg.io/32754) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:32755](https://epsg.io/32755) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:32756](https://epsg.io/32756) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:7844](https://epsg.io/7844) | GDA2020 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:7854](https://epsg.io/7854) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:7855](https://epsg.io/7855) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:7856](https://epsg.io/7856) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:7899](https://epsg.io/7899) | GDA2020 / Vicgrid |

## Map Tile Scales

| Zoom level | Scale denominator |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | 559,082,264 |
| 1 | 279,541,132 |
| 2 | 139,770,566 |
| 3 | 69,885,283 |
| 4 | 34,942,642 |
| 5 | 17,471,321 |
| 6 | 8,735,660 |
| 7 | 4,367,830 |
| 8 | 2,183,915 |
| 9 | 1,091,958 |
| 10 | 545,979 |
| 11 | 272,989 |
| 12 | 136,495 |
| 13 | 68,247 |
| 14 | 34,124 |
| 15 | 17,062 |
| 16 | 8,531 |
| 17 | 4,265 |
| 18 | 2,133 |
| 19 | 1,066 |
| 20 | 533 |

Commit message:

Add link to list of projections

pages/map-projections.md, after:

---
route: /map-projections
layout: central
---

# Map Projections

## Commonly Used Projections in Australia

In our work, we constantly need to look up the EPSG codes based on a projection description, or vice versa. Here’s a list of the ones we commonly encounter in our work across Australia.

| EPSG | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [EPSG:3857](https://epsg.io/3857) | GlobalMercator |
| [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) | WGS84 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:4283](https://epsg.io/4283) | GDA94 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:28354](https://epsg.io/28354) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:28355](https://epsg.io/28355) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:28356](https://epsg.io/28356) | GDA94 / MGA Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:3111](https://epsg.io/3111) | GDA94 / Vicgrid |
| [EPSG:32754](https://epsg.io/32754) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:32755](https://epsg.io/32755) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:32756](https://epsg.io/32756) | WGS84 / UTM Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:7844](https://epsg.io/7844) | GDA2020 / Long/Lat |
| [EPSG:7854](https://epsg.io/7854) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 54 |
| [EPSG:7855](https://epsg.io/7855) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 55 |
| [EPSG:7856](https://epsg.io/7856) | GDA2020 / MGA Zone 56 |
| [EPSG:7899](https://epsg.io/7899) | GDA2020 / Vicgrid |

A more comprehensive list can be found at [SRS Explorer](https://spatialreference.org/explorer.html?latlng=-9,154,-44,113&ignoreWorld=true&allowDeprecated=false&authorities=EPSG&activeTypes=PROJECTED_CRS).

## Map Tile Scales

| Zoom level | Scale denominator |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | 559,082,264 |
| 1 | 279,541,132 |
| 2 | 139,770,566 |
| 3 | 69,885,283 |
| 4 | 34,942,642 |
| 5 | 17,471,321 |
| 6 | 8,735,660 |
| 7 | 4,367,830 |
| 8 | 2,183,915 |
| 9 | 1,091,958 |
| 10 | 545,979 |
| 11 | 272,989 |
| 12 | 136,495 |
| 13 | 68,247 |
| 14 | 34,124 |
| 15 | 17,062 |
| 16 | 8,531 |
| 17 | 4,265 |
| 18 | 2,133 |
| 19 | 1,066 |
| 20 | 533 |
