admin-guide/publisher.md, before:

---
icon: link
---

# Pozi Publisher

Pozi Publisher standardises a wide range of spatial information from inside and outside your organisation into easily digestible ***map catalogues*** that integrate seamlessly into Pozi Web GIS.

## Working with Catalogues

A ***map catalogue*** is a collection of map layers, typically in XML format generated by a WFS or WMS `GetCapabilities`, or a QGIS `GetProjectSettings` service call.

The catalogue is the unit around which the Pozi Publisher workflow is based, either generating catalogues from various sources, modifying catalogues for specific use cases, or extracting information from catalogues.

## Installation

### Install Pozi Publisher

1. Create folder `C:\Pozi\Publisher`
2. Obtain Publisher from Pozi Support, and extract to/past  e to the new folder

### Installing AWS Tools for Powershell

+++ Run Powershell as Administrator

1. Type `Install-Module -Name AWS.Tools.Installer`
2. Answer 'Y' to the various security prompts

+++ Alternative installation

1. Download [AWS Tools](https://sdk-for-net.amazonwebservices.com/ps/v4/latest/AWS.Tools.zip).
2. Type `$Env:PSModulePath` on a PowerShell command line. This will provide a list of possible folders that the module zip file can be extracted in. It needs to be one that the application can access when running as a task or service.
3. Extract the zip file into the chosen folder.

+++

### Install AWS Tools Modules

- Extra modules are required for authentication and using S3 buckets.
- Type `Install-AWSToolsModule AWS.Tools.EC2,AWS.Tools.S3 -CleanUp`

---

## Configuration

| Section | Key | Description | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **`[Input]`** | `folder` | QGIS project folder | `folder=C:\Pozi\Projects`
| | `file` | QGIS project file | `file=C:\Pozi\Projects\Assets.qgs`
| | `wms` | QGIS GetProjectSettings URL | `wms=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver?MAP=C:/Pozi/Projects/Assets.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings` |
| | `wfs` | WFS URL | `wfs=https://data.gov.au/geoserver/wfs?SERVICE=WFS&REQUEST=GetCapabilities` |
| | `wms` | WMS URL | `wms=https://iws.maps.vic.gov.au/erdas-iws/ogc/wms/RDP?SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3.0&REQUEST=GetCapabilities` |
| **`[Output]`** | `folder` | Destination folder for catalogue XML files, and also GeoJSON and SLD files for QGIS projects that have the setting `export=true` added to the `Keyword list` in either the project's or individual layer's settings.  | `folder=C:\Pozi\Cache` |
| | `name` | Name of destination XML file | `name=deeca-iws-wms-southerngrampians` |
| | `dataFolder` | Destination folder for GeoJSON and SLD files when data is being extracted from a WFS service.  If a QGIS project is being used data will be extracted into a subfolder of the output `folder` with the same name as the XML file.  To enable data and style file extraction from a QGIS file, add `export=true` to the `Keyword list` either in the project's settings for all WFS layers, or individually to the `Keyword list` of specific layers. | `dataFolder=C:\Pozi\Cache` |
| | `projection` | When data is extracted from a WFS service, the default projection of WGS84 Latitude/Longitude (EPSG:4326) can be overwritten by specifying the EPSG code. | `projection=7855` |
| | `backupFolder` | Destination folder for creating time-stamped backup QGIS files, to enable version control. | `backupFolder=C:\Pozi\Backup` |
| | `searchFolder` | Destination for SearchDB file.  In order to set up a field for searching, go to the relevant layer's properties.  Make sure the layer is published as WFS, and then add `searchField={fieldName}` into the `Keyword list` for the layer.  To also specify an ID field add `idField={idFieldName}` into the `Keyword list`.  Settings added in the `Keyword list` should be comma delimited. | `searchFolder=C:\Pozi\Search` |
| | `order` | Comma-delimited list of layers in the order they should be presented in the output file. Regular expressions are recognised, so asterisks (*) should be used if the full name isn't going to be specified. Once the layers in the list have been processed, any remaining layers will be kept in their original order. **Note:** This uses layer names after `Replace` statements have been completed. | `order=*Centre,Kindergartens,Maternal Child Health Centres,Playgrounds,*Court*` |
| **`[QGIS_Server]`** | `url` | If the `source` is a QGIS project file or folder of files (as opposed to a URL), specify the URL of the QGIS Server which is needed to serve the required `GetProjectSettings` responses. | `url=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver` |
| **`[Filters]`** | `exclude` | Comma-delimited list of layers to exclude from the output. Will exclude any layer that has a `title` which contains this text. | `exclude=meeting-rooms,soccer` |
| | `include` | Comma-delimited list of layers to include in the output. Will include any layer that has a `title` which contains this text. **Note:** `Include` statements are processed after `exclude` statements. | `include=wimmera-grampians_2020dec20_air_vis_15cm_mga54` |
| **`[Replace]`** | `{old text}={new text}` | Text in layer `title` to replace, and the replacement text. Regular expressions can be used in these statements to improve flexibility and accuracy of string replacements. For more information on regular expression, please see [Microsoft's Powershell Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_regular_expressions?view=powershell-5.1). | `wimmera-grampians_2020dec20_air_vis_15cm_mga54.ecw=Aerial Photo Dec 2020` |
| **`[AWS]`** | `bucket` | Destination AWS S3 bucket | `bucket=connect.pozi.com/userdata/gleneira-publisher` |
| | `key` | Key | `key={Add Key}` |
| | `secret` | Secret | `secret={Add Secret}` |
| **`[WFS]`** | `parameters` | Specify extra parameters when calling a WFS service. This is particularly important when calling large datasets that have a limit on records that will be returned on a single call, as it can enable pagination.  Firstly, the full data name (defined by the `<Name>` element in the GetCapabilities call) needs to be specified.  This is followed by a pipe (\|) character, then the extra parameters that are to be concatenated to the end of the WFS service call.  The `cql_filter` parameter is particularly useful for returning subsets of a large dataset - the example limits the records returned to active properties within a specific LGA.  When requesting a dataset that requires pagination, it is critical that a `sortBy` criteria is added with a unique field to sort by.  Without this the call will fail. | `parameters=open-data-platform:v_property_mp\|cql_filter=prop_lga_code IN (330) AND prop_status='A'&sortBy=prop_pfi` |

## Examples

### Generate map catalogues from QGIS projects

Generate production-ready OGC-compliant map catalogues from QGIS projects.

- Improve load times in web map applications by pre-generating catalogues from internal and external web map servers into static XML files
- Version control of QGIS projects

==- Example

```ini
[Input]
folder=\\cscgisweb02\d$\Pozi

[Output]
folder=C:\Pozi\Cache

[QGIS_Server]
url=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver

```

==-

### Generate map catalogues from external sources

Save local versions of catalogues from external providers.


### Customise catalogues

Generate custom catalogues from external web servers.

- Search and replace text
- Filter layers
- Embed custom metadata

### Bulk data generation/extraction

Export GeoJSON and SLD files for all layers in a catalogue.

- Bulk download map data from external catalogues on a routine schedule

### Sync to cloud

Sync data generated from local sources up to S3.

- Publish layers to the public from QGIS projects 

### Build search indexes

Compile index of features and attributes for fast searching.

- Search index generator

## Running Publisher

### In Powershell

1. Open Powershell
2. Navigate to the Pozi Publisher folder `cd C:\Pozi\Publisher`
3. Run Pozi Publisher adding the `ini` settings file as a parameter. `.\src\PoziPublisher.ps1 "C:\Pozi\Publisher\deeca-iws-wms-northerngrampians-lga.ini"`

### As a scheduled task

1. Open `Task Scheduler` in Windows.
1. Create a new scheduled task using `Create Task...`.
1. Name the new scheduled task something meaningful like `Pozi Publisher Sync`.
1. In most cases these tasks will need to be `Run whether user is logged in or not`, possibly with an administrator login, to ensure it can be run at any time.
1. Under `Triggers` set up the frequency the task should be run.  Generally this will be either Daily or Weekly.
1. In the `Actions` tab, create a new action.
    * The action should be `Start a program`.
    * In the `Program/script` dialog box type `cmd.exe`.
    * For the `Add arguments (optional)` dialog box, add the location of Pozi Publisher, the `.ini` setting file and a `.log` file, as follows: `/c "powershell.exe "C:\Pozi\Publisher\PoziPublisher.ps1" -iniFiles "C:\Pozi\Publisher\publish-to-public.ini" > "C:\Pozi\Publisher\publish-to-public.log""`
1. Customise any further settings in the scheduled task.

!!!warning Warning 
Be careful with the placement of quotes in the arguments of the scheduled task action!
!!!

## Troubleshooting

==- Layers are not exported

- ensure that the WFS Output Extension is installed. See [WFS Output Extension](../admin-guide/installation/qgis-server.md#wfs-output-extension)
- add `export=true` as a keyword in the project's QGIS Server 'Service Capabilities'

==- Log file reports "'Set-AWSCredential' is not recognized as the name of a cmdlet"

Ensure that AWS Tools for Powershell is installed. See [AWS Tools for Powershell](#installing-aws-tools-for-powershell)

==-

Commit message:

PoziPublisher extra info about AWS Tools installation.

admin-guide/publisher.md, after:

---
icon: link
---

# Pozi Publisher

Pozi Publisher standardises a wide range of spatial information from inside and outside your organisation into easily digestible ***map catalogues*** that integrate seamlessly into Pozi Web GIS.

## Working with Catalogues

A ***map catalogue*** is a collection of map layers, typically in XML format generated by a WFS or WMS `GetCapabilities`, or a QGIS `GetProjectSettings` service call.

The catalogue is the unit around which the Pozi Publisher workflow is based, either generating catalogues from various sources, modifying catalogues for specific use cases, or extracting information from catalogues.

## Installation

### Install Pozi Publisher

1. Create folder `C:\Pozi\Publisher`
2. Obtain Publisher from Pozi Support, and extract to/past  e to the new folder

### Installing AWS Tools for Powershell

+++ Run Powershell as Administrator

1. Type `Install-Module -Name AWS.Tools.Installer`
2. Answer 'Y' to the various security prompts

+++ Alternative installation

1. Download [AWS Tools](https://sdk-for-net.amazonwebservices.com/ps/v4/latest/AWS.Tools.zip).
2. Type `$Env:PSModulePath` on a PowerShell command line. This will provide a list of possible folders that the module zip file can be extracted in. It needs to be one that the application can access when running as a task or service.
3. Extract the zip file into the chosen folder.

+++

### Install AWS Tools Modules

- Extra modules are required for authentication and using S3 buckets.
- Type `Install-AWSToolsModule AWS.Tools.EC2,AWS.Tools.S3 -CleanUp`

Note: This step will need to be repeated for each user that runs Pozi Publisher and needs to sync files to AWS. Alternately, an administrator account can be used to run `Install-AWSToolsModule AWS.Tools.EC2,AWS.Tools.S3 -CleanUp -Scope AllUsers`, which will install the tools for all users.

---

## Configuration

| Section | Key | Description | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **`[Input]`** | `folder` | QGIS project folder | `folder=C:\Pozi\Projects`
| | `file` | QGIS project file | `file=C:\Pozi\Projects\Assets.qgs`
| | `wms` | QGIS GetProjectSettings URL | `wms=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver?MAP=C:/Pozi/Projects/Assets.qgs&SERVICE=WMS&REQUEST=GetProjectSettings` |
| | `wfs` | WFS URL | `wfs=https://data.gov.au/geoserver/wfs?SERVICE=WFS&REQUEST=GetCapabilities` |
| | `wms` | WMS URL | `wms=https://iws.maps.vic.gov.au/erdas-iws/ogc/wms/RDP?SERVICE=WMS&VERSION=1.3.0&REQUEST=GetCapabilities` |
| **`[Output]`** | `folder` | Destination folder for catalogue XML files, and also GeoJSON and SLD files for QGIS projects that have the setting `export=true` added to the `Keyword list` in either the project's or individual layer's settings.  | `folder=C:\Pozi\Cache` |
| | `name` | Name of destination XML file | `name=deeca-iws-wms-southerngrampians` |
| | `dataFolder` | Destination folder for GeoJSON and SLD files when data is being extracted from a WFS service.  If a QGIS project is being used data will be extracted into a subfolder of the output `folder` with the same name as the XML file.  To enable data and style file extraction from a QGIS file, add `export=true` to the `Keyword list` either in the project's settings for all WFS layers, or individually to the `Keyword list` of specific layers. | `dataFolder=C:\Pozi\Cache` |
| | `projection` | When data is extracted from a WFS service, the default projection of WGS84 Latitude/Longitude (EPSG:4326) can be overwritten by specifying the EPSG code. | `projection=7855` |
| | `backupFolder` | Destination folder for creating time-stamped backup QGIS files, to enable version control. | `backupFolder=C:\Pozi\Backup` |
| | `searchFolder` | Destination for SearchDB file.  In order to set up a field for searching, go to the relevant layer's properties.  Make sure the layer is published as WFS, and then add `searchField={fieldName}` into the `Keyword list` for the layer.  To also specify an ID field add `idField={idFieldName}` into the `Keyword list`.  Settings added in the `Keyword list` should be comma delimited. | `searchFolder=C:\Pozi\Search` |
| | `order` | Comma-delimited list of layers in the order they should be presented in the output file. Regular expressions are recognised, so asterisks (*) should be used if the full name isn't going to be specified. Once the layers in the list have been processed, any remaining layers will be kept in their original order. **Note:** This uses layer names after `Replace` statements have been completed. | `order=*Centre,Kindergartens,Maternal Child Health Centres,Playgrounds,*Court*` |
| **`[QGIS_Server]`** | `url` | If the `source` is a QGIS project file or folder of files (as opposed to a URL), specify the URL of the QGIS Server which is needed to serve the required `GetProjectSettings` responses. | `url=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver` |
| **`[Filters]`** | `exclude` | Comma-delimited list of layers to exclude from the output. Will exclude any layer that has a `title` which contains this text. | `exclude=meeting-rooms,soccer` |
| | `include` | Comma-delimited list of layers to include in the output. Will include any layer that has a `title` which contains this text. **Note:** `Include` statements are processed after `exclude` statements. | `include=wimmera-grampians_2020dec20_air_vis_15cm_mga54` |
| **`[Replace]`** | `{old text}={new text}` | Text in layer `title` to replace, and the replacement text. Regular expressions can be used in these statements to improve flexibility and accuracy of string replacements. For more information on regular expression, please see [Microsoft's Powershell Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_regular_expressions?view=powershell-5.1). | `wimmera-grampians_2020dec20_air_vis_15cm_mga54.ecw=Aerial Photo Dec 2020` |
| **`[AWS]`** | `bucket` | Destination AWS S3 bucket | `bucket=connect.pozi.com/userdata/gleneira-publisher` |
| | `key` | Key | `key={Add Key}` |
| | `secret` | Secret | `secret={Add Secret}` |
| **`[WFS]`** | `parameters` | Specify extra parameters when calling a WFS service. This is particularly important when calling large datasets that have a limit on records that will be returned on a single call, as it can enable pagination.  Firstly, the full data name (defined by the `<Name>` element in the GetCapabilities call) needs to be specified.  This is followed by a pipe (\|) character, then the extra parameters that are to be concatenated to the end of the WFS service call.  The `cql_filter` parameter is particularly useful for returning subsets of a large dataset - the example limits the records returned to active properties within a specific LGA.  When requesting a dataset that requires pagination, it is critical that a `sortBy` criteria is added with a unique field to sort by.  Without this the call will fail. | `parameters=open-data-platform:v_property_mp\|cql_filter=prop_lga_code IN (330) AND prop_status='A'&sortBy=prop_pfi` |

## Examples

### Generate map catalogues from QGIS projects

Generate production-ready OGC-compliant map catalogues from QGIS projects.

- Improve load times in web map applications by pre-generating catalogues from internal and external web map servers into static XML files
- Version control of QGIS projects

==- Example

```ini
[Input]
folder=\\cscgisweb02\d$\Pozi

[Output]
folder=C:\Pozi\Cache

[QGIS_Server]
url=http://localhost/pozi/qgisserver

```

==-

### Generate map catalogues from external sources

Save local versions of catalogues from external providers.


### Customise catalogues

Generate custom catalogues from external web servers.

- Search and replace text
- Filter layers
- Embed custom metadata

### Bulk data generation/extraction

Export GeoJSON and SLD files for all layers in a catalogue.

- Bulk download map data from external catalogues on a routine schedule

### Sync to cloud

Sync data generated from local sources up to S3.

- Publish layers to the public from QGIS projects 

### Build search indexes

Compile index of features and attributes for fast searching.

- Search index generator

## Running Publisher

### In Powershell

1. Open Powershell
2. Navigate to the Pozi Publisher folder `cd C:\Pozi\Publisher`
3. Run Pozi Publisher adding the `ini` settings file as a parameter. `.\src\PoziPublisher.ps1 "C:\Pozi\Publisher\deeca-iws-wms-northerngrampians-lga.ini"`

### As a scheduled task

1. Open `Task Scheduler` in Windows.
1. Create a new scheduled task using `Create Task...`.
1. Name the new scheduled task something meaningful like `Pozi Publisher Sync`.
1. In most cases these tasks will need to be `Run whether user is logged in or not`, possibly with an administrator login, to ensure it can be run at any time.
1. Under `Triggers` set up the frequency the task should be run.  Generally this will be either Daily or Weekly.
1. In the `Actions` tab, create a new action.
    * The action should be `Start a program`.
    * In the `Program/script` dialog box type `cmd.exe`.
    * For the `Add arguments (optional)` dialog box, add the location of Pozi Publisher, the `.ini` setting file and a `.log` file, as follows: `/c "powershell.exe "C:\Pozi\Publisher\PoziPublisher.ps1" -iniFiles "C:\Pozi\Publisher\publish-to-public.ini" > "C:\Pozi\Publisher\publish-to-public.log""`
1. Customise any further settings in the scheduled task.

!!!warning Warning 
Be careful with the placement of quotes in the arguments of the scheduled task action!
!!!

## Troubleshooting

==- Layers are not exported

- ensure that the WFS Output Extension is installed. See [WFS Output Extension](../admin-guide/installation/qgis-server.md#wfs-output-extension)
- add `export=true` as a keyword in the project's QGIS Server 'Service Capabilities'

==- Log file reports "'Set-AWSCredential' is not recognized as the name of a cmdlet"

Ensure that AWS Tools for Powershell is installed. See [AWS Tools for Powershell](#installing-aws-tools-for-powershell)

==-
