pozi-connect/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Pozi Connect Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Data Sources

Database connection strings can be configured in any of these formats:

* `ODBC:DSN=dsnname`
* `ODBC:DRIVER={SQL Server};SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename`
* `MSSQL:SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename`

You can test your connection string using a command prompt running GDAL/OGR.

```
ogrinfo "MSSQL:SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename"
```

## Running as a batch task

To run multiple Pozi Connect tasks sequentially and avoid having to open up Pozi Connect and pick and run individual tasks, you can configure a 'recipe' for Pozi Connect to follow. This is useful if you have a series of tasks you regularly need to run (for example, M1s) or for setting up as a scheduled task.

Here we will use the Melton M1 tasks as an example.

Create a text file...

`PoziConnect\recipes\Melton M1.txt`

…with the following text…

    Melton\Melton M1 - 1 - Import Authority.ini
    Melton\Melton M1 - 2 - Import Vicmap.ini
    Melton\Melton M1 - 3 - Generate M1.ini

Then create a batch file or scheduled task with the following target:

`PoziConnect.exe --recipe="recipes\Melton M1.txt"`

(You may need to specify the full path to the exe file instead of just `PoziConnect.exe`.)

This will launch Pozi Connect and run all the tasks specified in the recipe.

---

## Configuration

Pozi Connect is controlled using INI files. You can edit these files in a text editor.

If using Windows Notepad, the line returns in existing files may not display correctly. Notepad++ is recommended for editing these files.

### User Settings

Notes:

* If key name ends with `folder`, the interface offers the user a button to launch an Open Folder dialog.
* If key name ends with `file`, the interface offers the user a button to launch an Open File dialog
* If key name ends with `password`, the interface displays dummy characters in place of the populated or typed characters

Examples:

```ini
[User Settings]
Vicmap_Address_Folder:
Vicmap_Property_Folder:
LGA_Code: 302
Database_File: Output\Ballarat.sqlite

[User Settings]
Pathway_DSN: pthprod
Pathway_User_ID:
Pathway_Password:
Pathway_Table_Prefix: pthdbo.
```

### General Settings

Example:

    [General Settings]
    Description:
        Extract Pathway address and parcel
        information into Pozi Connect database
    Pathway_Connection: ODBC:DSN={Pathway_DSN};UID={Pathway_User_ID};PWD={Pathway_Password}
    Database_File: Output\Ballarat.sqlite

---

## Parameters

### Source/Destination

#### Files

* SHP
* TAB
* CSV
* DXF
* DGN
* GML
* KML
* GPX
* VRT
* XLS, XLSX
* JSON, GeoJSON
* DBF
* MIF
* XML (GeoRSS)

#### Databases

*Note: specify file path or connection, then comma, then table name*

* [SQLite](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/sqlite.html)
* [PostGIS](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/pg.html)
* [Oracle](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/oci.html)
* [ODBC](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/odbc.html)
* [MSSQL](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/mssqlspatial.html)

A reference guide for the SQL functions in SQLite and Spatialite is [here](https://www.gaia-gis.it/gaia-sins/spatialite-sql-4.2.0.html). A tutorial with examples is [here](https://www.gaia-gis.it/gaia-sins/spatialite-tutorial-2.3.1.html).

#### Web Service

* WFS

#### Examples:

    Source: C:\Temp\Road.tab
    Source: C:\Temp\Vicmap.sqlite,Road
    Destination: PG:host='server.pozi.com' port='5432' dbname='councilgis' user='opengeo' password='abc123',Road
    Destination: OCI:gisadmin/abc123@127.0.0.1,Road

### If

Notes:

* the execution of any section can be made conditional
* use a Python expression to return true or false

Example

    If: os.path.exists('{Input_Folder}/ConquestRoads.TAB')

### Select

Notes:

* Comma-delimited list of fields from input layer to copy to the new layer. A field is skipped if mentioned previously in the list even if the input layer has duplicate field names. (Defaults to all; any field is skipped if a subsequent field with same name is found.) Starting with OGR 2.0, geometry fields can also be specified in the list.
* equates to `-select` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    Select: ogc_fid as fid, prop_propnum as propnum, ezi_address as address, transform(ST_SimplifyPreserveTopology(transform(the_geom, 28355), 1),4326) as the_geom

### Where

Notes:

* Attribute query (like SQL WHERE)
* equates to `-where` parameter in ogr2ogr

Examples:

    Where: prop_propnum is not null and prop_propnum <> ''
    Where: OGR_GEOMETRY='POINT'

### SQL

Notes:

* SQL statement to execute. The resulting table/layer will be saved to the output.
* equates to `-sql` parameter in ogr2ogr

Examples:

    SQL: SELECT * FROM pthdbo.cnacomp (NOLOCK)
    SQL: select RURAL_NO, RDNAME, RDTYPE, PROPNUM, COMMENTS, PRIMARY as IS_PRIMARY, HOUSE, ID, RA_Complete, XCOORD, YCOORD, PROPERTYNA, DATE from Rural_Address_Original_GJ
    SQL: select * from ADDRESS where lga_code = '{LGA_Code}'

### SQLFile

Example:

    SQLFile: {Shared_SQL_Folder}\M1 R Edits.sql

### Native SQLite Processing

When performing operations where the source and destination are the same SQLite database, you can take advantage of SQLite's native query processing rather than OGR's. This may help for some complex queries.

Example:

    SQLProcessing: SQLite


### TransformCoordSys

Notes:

* reproject/transform to this SRS on output
* equates to `-t_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    TransformCoordSys: EPSG:4326

### AssignCoordSys

Notes:

* assign an output SRS
* equates to `-a_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    AssignCoordSys: EPSG:28355

### OverrideCoordSys

Notes:

* override source SRS
* equates to `-s_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    OverrideCoordSys: EPSG:28355

### GeometryType

Notes:

* Define the geometry type for the created layer. One of NONE, GEOMETRY, POINT, LINESTRING, POLYGON, GEOMETRYCOLLECTION, MULTIPOINT, MULTIPOLYGON or MULTILINESTRING.
* equates to `-nlt` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    GeometryType: None

### Index

Example:

    Index: status,tpklpatitl

### SpatialIndex

Example:

    SpatialIndex: No

### Commands

Examples:

    Command: startfile('{Output_Folder}\\')
    Command: DSNList()
    PostCommand: system('ogrinfo {Pathway_Connection}')
    Command: startfile('output\PoziConnect.log')

### SkipInfo

By default, Pozi Connect obtains information about a table and writes it to the log before importing the table's contents. In some circumstatnces, this adds a significant load to the source server. Use `SkipInfo` to prevent Pozi Connect from obtaining the table info.

Example:

    SkipInfo: true

### OGRInfoOnly

Special case used where usual source-destination is not relevant. For example, if updating an existing table.

Example:

    OGRInfoOnly: true

---

## Advanced

A number of other OGR commands are available for advanced use within Pozi Connect. These operate as per the ogr2ogr cli. Currently, the following commands are supported. For advanced usage, see the [ogr2ogr](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/index.html) documentation.

### Dim

Defines the dimentions of the output layer. Supported values are XY, XYZ, XYM, and XYZM. layer_dim can also be specified to copy the dimention of the output layer.

Example:

    Dim: XY

### SPAT

Defines the spatial query extents for the source layer. Allows spatial filtering of the source features prior to processing.

Example:

    SPAT: 0 0 1000 1000

### SPAT_SRS

Defines the SRS of the spatial query extent, provided in SPAT

Example:

    SPAT_SRS: EPSG:3111

### GT

Defines the number of features grouped per transaction. Defaults to 20000. Changing this value may provide performance improvements for some data sources.

Example:

    GT: 2000

### ZFIELD

Defines the field of the source layer which will be written to the Z dimention of XYZ or XYZM layers.

Example:

    ZFIELD: alt

### CLIPSRC

Defines a layer/feature used to clip the source layer before processing. A bounding box, WKT Geomerty or a datasource can be provided to the tool.

Example:

    CLIPSRC: d:\test.shp

### CLIPSRCSQL

Defines the SQL to run against CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCSQL: SELECT * FROM test where group = 1  

### CLIPSRCLAYER

Defines the named layer of the CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCLAYER: Test

### CLIPSRCWHERE

Defines an attribute query on the CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCLAYER: Test


### CLIPDST

As per CLIPSRC, except the clip operation is completed after data has been processed.

Example:

    CLIPDST: d:\test.shp

### CLIPDSTSQL

As per CLIPDSTSQL.

Example:

    CLIPDSTSQL: SELECT * FROM test where group = 1  

### CLIPDSTLAYER

As per CLIPDSTLAYER.

Example:

    CLIPDSTLAYER: Test

### CLIPDSTWHERE

As per CLIPDSTWHERE.

Example:

    CLIPDSTLAYER: Test

### SIMPLIFY

Simplifies a complex layer, using an algorithm which preserves topology per feature, but not the layer. This option accepts a tollerance value.

Example:

    SIMPLIFY: 5

### SEGMENTIZE

Segmentizes a layer by adding nodes. This option accepts a maximum node distance value.

Example:

    SEGMENTIZE: 10

### EXPLODECOLLECTIONS

Exploding collections takes a multipart feature and breaks it into its single part components.

Example:

    EXPLODECOLLECTIONS: True

### MAPFIELDTYPE

Similar to SQL's CAST, this function allows the change of field type. All={type} can be used to change all values to a particular type. Accepts Integer, Integer64, Real, String, Date, Time, DateTime and Binary.

Example:

    MAPFIELDTYPE: ALL|String

### ADDFIELDS

Similar to append, this function also add any new field in the source to the destination.

Example:

    ADDFIELDS: True

### RELAXEDFIELDNAMEMATCH

Relaxes the matching of field names between source and destination

Example:

    RELAXEDFIELDNAMEMATCH: True

### FORCENULLABLE

Do not propogate NOT NULL constraints between source and destination

Example:

    FORCENULLABLE: True

### UNSETDEFAULT

Do not propogate DEFAULT constraints between source and destination

Example:

    UNSETDEFAULT: True

### MO

Adds metadata to the destintion, if the layers supports it.

Example:

    MO: True

### Open & Creation Options

The following commands can have multiple options specified, separated by a pipe '|' character

* dsco
* lco
* doo
* oo

Example:

    LCO: SHPT=POLYGONZ|RESIZE=YES

---

## Usage

### Import MapInfo TAB file into SQLite database

    [Vicmap Address]
    Source: {Vicmap_Address_Folder}\ADDRESS.tab
    SQL: select * from ADDRESS where lga_code = '{LGA_Code}'
    Destination: {Database_File},VMADD_ADDRESS
    Index: property_pfi

### Specify destination coordsys and geometry type

    [Vicmap Features of Interest - Polygon]
    Source: {Vicmap_Features_of_Interest_Folder}\FOI_POLYGON.tab
    Destination: {Database_File},vmfeat_foi_polygon
    GeometryType: MULTIPOLYGON
    TransformCoordSys: EPSG:4326

### Filter by geometry type during import

    [Vicmap Features of Interest - Point]
    Source: {Vicmap_Features_of_Interest_Folder}\FOI_POINT.tab
    Where: OGR_GEOMETRY='POINT'
    Destination: {Database_File},vmfeat_foi_point

### Translate MapInfo table to CSV

    [Vicmap Reference Table - VMADD_ACCESS_TYPE]
    Source: {Vicmap_Reference_Folder}\ADDRESS_ACCESS_TYPE.tab
    Destination: {Output_CSV_Folder}\VMADD_ACCESS_TYPE.csv

### Import non-spatial MapInfo TAB file into SQLite database

    [Vicmap Parcel-Property]
    Source: {Vicmap_Property_Folder}\PARCEL_PROPERTY.tab
    Destination: {Database_File},VMPROP_PARCEL_PROPERTY
    GeometryType: NONE
    SpatialIndex: NO
    Index: parcel_pfi,property_pfi

### Update an existing SQLite table

    [Update PC_Council_Property_Address]
    OGRInfoOnly: true
    Destination: {Database_File},dummy
    SQLFile: Tasks\Swan Hill\SQL\Swan Hill PC Council Rural Address.sql

### Delete a table from a SQLite file

    [Vicmap Vegetation - Remove Tree Density]
    OGRInfoOnly: true
    SQL: drop table vmveg_tree_density
    Destination: {Database_File},dummy

### Zip up output

    [General Settings]
    ZipFilePath: {Output_Folder}/PIQA Export.zip
    ZipSession: ZipFile('{ZipFilePath}', 'a', ZIP_DEFLATED)

    [PIQA Parcel Export]
    Source: {PlaceLabDB}
    SQLFile: {ParcelSQLFile}
    Destination: {Output_Folder}/PIQA Parcel Export.CSV
    PostCommand: {ZipSession}.write('{Destination}')

    [PIQA Zip Finalisation]
    Command: {ZipSession}.close()
    [Display in Windows Explorer]
    Command: startfile('{Output_Folder}\\')

Commit message:

Add info about database connection strings

pozi-connect/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Pozi Connect Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Data Sources

Database connection strings can be configured in any of these formats:

* `ODBC:DSN=dsnname`
* `ODBC:DRIVER={SQL Server};SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename`
* `MSSQL:SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename`

You can test your connection string using a command prompt running GDAL/OGR. If you have QGIS installed via OSGeo4W, you can open the command prompt by running `C:\OSGeo4W\OSGeo4W.bat`. Alternatively you can use the one provided with Pozi Connect at `PoziConnect\vendor\release-xxxx-gdal-x-x-x-mapserver-x-x-x\SDKShell.bat`.

```
ogrinfo "MSSQL:SERVER=servername;DATABASE=databasename"
```

If you have the correct connection string for your database, a list of available tables will be displayed. If you don't see your tables listed, please talk to your IT Administrator to obtain the correct connection string or enable the required permissions.

## Running as a batch task

To run multiple Pozi Connect tasks sequentially and avoid having to open up Pozi Connect and pick and run individual tasks, you can configure a 'recipe' for Pozi Connect to follow. This is useful if you have a series of tasks you regularly need to run (for example, M1s) or for setting up as a scheduled task.

Here we will use the Melton M1 tasks as an example.

Create a text file...

`PoziConnect\recipes\Melton M1.txt`

…with the following text…

    Melton\Melton M1 - 1 - Import Authority.ini
    Melton\Melton M1 - 2 - Import Vicmap.ini
    Melton\Melton M1 - 3 - Generate M1.ini

Then create a batch file or scheduled task with the following target:

`PoziConnect.exe --recipe="recipes\Melton M1.txt"`

(You may need to specify the full path to the exe file instead of just `PoziConnect.exe`.)

This will launch Pozi Connect and run all the tasks specified in the recipe.

---

## Configuration

Pozi Connect is controlled using INI files. You can edit these files in a text editor.

If using Windows Notepad, the line returns in existing files may not display correctly. Notepad++ is recommended for editing these files.

### User Settings

Notes:

* If key name ends with `folder`, the interface offers the user a button to launch an Open Folder dialog.
* If key name ends with `file`, the interface offers the user a button to launch an Open File dialog
* If key name ends with `password`, the interface displays dummy characters in place of the populated or typed characters

Examples:

```ini
[User Settings]
Vicmap_Address_Folder:
Vicmap_Property_Folder:
LGA_Code: 302
Database_File: Output\Ballarat.sqlite

[User Settings]
Pathway_DSN: pthprod
Pathway_User_ID:
Pathway_Password:
Pathway_Table_Prefix: pthdbo.
```

### General Settings

Example:

    [General Settings]
    Description:
        Extract Pathway address and parcel
        information into Pozi Connect database
    Pathway_Connection: ODBC:DSN={Pathway_DSN};UID={Pathway_User_ID};PWD={Pathway_Password}
    Database_File: Output\Ballarat.sqlite

---

## Parameters

### Source/Destination

#### Files

* SHP
* TAB
* CSV
* DXF
* DGN
* GML
* KML
* GPX
* VRT
* XLS, XLSX
* JSON, GeoJSON
* DBF
* MIF
* XML (GeoRSS)

#### Databases

*Note: specify file path or connection, then comma, then table name*

* [SQLite](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/sqlite.html)
* [PostGIS](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/pg.html)
* [Oracle](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/oci.html)
* [ODBC](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/odbc.html)
* [MSSQL](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/mssqlspatial.html)

A reference guide for the SQL functions in SQLite and Spatialite is [here](https://www.gaia-gis.it/gaia-sins/spatialite-sql-4.2.0.html). A tutorial with examples is [here](https://www.gaia-gis.it/gaia-sins/spatialite-tutorial-2.3.1.html).

#### Web Service

* WFS

#### Examples:

    Source: C:\Temp\Road.tab
    Source: C:\Temp\Vicmap.sqlite,Road
    Destination: PG:host='server.pozi.com' port='5432' dbname='councilgis' user='opengeo' password='abc123',Road
    Destination: OCI:gisadmin/abc123@127.0.0.1,Road

### If

Notes:

* the execution of any section can be made conditional
* use a Python expression to return true or false

Example

    If: os.path.exists('{Input_Folder}/ConquestRoads.TAB')

### Select

Notes:

* Comma-delimited list of fields from input layer to copy to the new layer. A field is skipped if mentioned previously in the list even if the input layer has duplicate field names. (Defaults to all; any field is skipped if a subsequent field with same name is found.) Starting with OGR 2.0, geometry fields can also be specified in the list.
* equates to `-select` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    Select: ogc_fid as fid, prop_propnum as propnum, ezi_address as address, transform(ST_SimplifyPreserveTopology(transform(the_geom, 28355), 1),4326) as the_geom

### Where

Notes:

* Attribute query (like SQL WHERE)
* equates to `-where` parameter in ogr2ogr

Examples:

    Where: prop_propnum is not null and prop_propnum <> ''
    Where: OGR_GEOMETRY='POINT'

### SQL

Notes:

* SQL statement to execute. The resulting table/layer will be saved to the output.
* equates to `-sql` parameter in ogr2ogr

Examples:

    SQL: SELECT * FROM pthdbo.cnacomp (NOLOCK)
    SQL: select RURAL_NO, RDNAME, RDTYPE, PROPNUM, COMMENTS, PRIMARY as IS_PRIMARY, HOUSE, ID, RA_Complete, XCOORD, YCOORD, PROPERTYNA, DATE from Rural_Address_Original_GJ
    SQL: select * from ADDRESS where lga_code = '{LGA_Code}'

### SQLFile

Example:

    SQLFile: {Shared_SQL_Folder}\M1 R Edits.sql

### Native SQLite Processing

When performing operations where the source and destination are the same SQLite database, you can take advantage of SQLite's native query processing rather than OGR's. This may help for some complex queries.

Example:

    SQLProcessing: SQLite


### TransformCoordSys

Notes:

* reproject/transform to this SRS on output
* equates to `-t_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    TransformCoordSys: EPSG:4326

### AssignCoordSys

Notes:

* assign an output SRS
* equates to `-a_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    AssignCoordSys: EPSG:28355

### OverrideCoordSys

Notes:

* override source SRS
* equates to `-s_srs` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    OverrideCoordSys: EPSG:28355

### GeometryType

Notes:

* Define the geometry type for the created layer. One of NONE, GEOMETRY, POINT, LINESTRING, POLYGON, GEOMETRYCOLLECTION, MULTIPOINT, MULTIPOLYGON or MULTILINESTRING.
* equates to `-nlt` parameter in ogr2ogr

Example:

    GeometryType: None

### Index

Example:

    Index: status,tpklpatitl

### SpatialIndex

Example:

    SpatialIndex: No

### Commands

Examples:

    Command: startfile('{Output_Folder}\\')
    Command: DSNList()
    PostCommand: system('ogrinfo {Pathway_Connection}')
    Command: startfile('output\PoziConnect.log')

### SkipInfo

By default, Pozi Connect obtains information about a table and writes it to the log before importing the table's contents. In some circumstatnces, this adds a significant load to the source server. Use `SkipInfo` to prevent Pozi Connect from obtaining the table info.

Example:

    SkipInfo: true

### OGRInfoOnly

Special case used where usual source-destination is not relevant. For example, if updating an existing table.

Example:

    OGRInfoOnly: true

---

## Advanced

A number of other OGR commands are available for advanced use within Pozi Connect. These operate as per the ogr2ogr cli. Currently, the following commands are supported. For advanced usage, see the [ogr2ogr](https://gdal.org/drivers/vector/index.html) documentation.

### Dim

Defines the dimentions of the output layer. Supported values are XY, XYZ, XYM, and XYZM. layer_dim can also be specified to copy the dimention of the output layer.

Example:

    Dim: XY

### SPAT

Defines the spatial query extents for the source layer. Allows spatial filtering of the source features prior to processing.

Example:

    SPAT: 0 0 1000 1000

### SPAT_SRS

Defines the SRS of the spatial query extent, provided in SPAT

Example:

    SPAT_SRS: EPSG:3111

### GT

Defines the number of features grouped per transaction. Defaults to 20000. Changing this value may provide performance improvements for some data sources.

Example:

    GT: 2000

### ZFIELD

Defines the field of the source layer which will be written to the Z dimention of XYZ or XYZM layers.

Example:

    ZFIELD: alt

### CLIPSRC

Defines a layer/feature used to clip the source layer before processing. A bounding box, WKT Geomerty or a datasource can be provided to the tool.

Example:

    CLIPSRC: d:\test.shp

### CLIPSRCSQL

Defines the SQL to run against CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCSQL: SELECT * FROM test where group = 1  

### CLIPSRCLAYER

Defines the named layer of the CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCLAYER: Test

### CLIPSRCWHERE

Defines an attribute query on the CLIPSRC to use in the clip.

Example:

    CLIPSRCLAYER: Test


### CLIPDST

As per CLIPSRC, except the clip operation is completed after data has been processed.

Example:

    CLIPDST: d:\test.shp

### CLIPDSTSQL

As per CLIPDSTSQL.

Example:

    CLIPDSTSQL: SELECT * FROM test where group = 1  

### CLIPDSTLAYER

As per CLIPDSTLAYER.

Example:

    CLIPDSTLAYER: Test

### CLIPDSTWHERE

As per CLIPDSTWHERE.

Example:

    CLIPDSTLAYER: Test

### SIMPLIFY

Simplifies a complex layer, using an algorithm which preserves topology per feature, but not the layer. This option accepts a tollerance value.

Example:

    SIMPLIFY: 5

### SEGMENTIZE

Segmentizes a layer by adding nodes. This option accepts a maximum node distance value.

Example:

    SEGMENTIZE: 10

### EXPLODECOLLECTIONS

Exploding collections takes a multipart feature and breaks it into its single part components.

Example:

    EXPLODECOLLECTIONS: True

### MAPFIELDTYPE

Similar to SQL's CAST, this function allows the change of field type. All={type} can be used to change all values to a particular type. Accepts Integer, Integer64, Real, String, Date, Time, DateTime and Binary.

Example:

    MAPFIELDTYPE: ALL|String

### ADDFIELDS

Similar to append, this function also add any new field in the source to the destination.

Example:

    ADDFIELDS: True

### RELAXEDFIELDNAMEMATCH

Relaxes the matching of field names between source and destination

Example:

    RELAXEDFIELDNAMEMATCH: True

### FORCENULLABLE

Do not propogate NOT NULL constraints between source and destination

Example:

    FORCENULLABLE: True

### UNSETDEFAULT

Do not propogate DEFAULT constraints between source and destination

Example:

    UNSETDEFAULT: True

### MO

Adds metadata to the destintion, if the layers supports it.

Example:

    MO: True

### Open & Creation Options

The following commands can have multiple options specified, separated by a pipe '|' character

* dsco
* lco
* doo
* oo

Example:

    LCO: SHPT=POLYGONZ|RESIZE=YES

---

## Usage

### Import MapInfo TAB file into SQLite database

    [Vicmap Address]
    Source: {Vicmap_Address_Folder}\ADDRESS.tab
    SQL: select * from ADDRESS where lga_code = '{LGA_Code}'
    Destination: {Database_File},VMADD_ADDRESS
    Index: property_pfi

### Specify destination coordsys and geometry type

    [Vicmap Features of Interest - Polygon]
    Source: {Vicmap_Features_of_Interest_Folder}\FOI_POLYGON.tab
    Destination: {Database_File},vmfeat_foi_polygon
    GeometryType: MULTIPOLYGON
    TransformCoordSys: EPSG:4326

### Filter by geometry type during import

    [Vicmap Features of Interest - Point]
    Source: {Vicmap_Features_of_Interest_Folder}\FOI_POINT.tab
    Where: OGR_GEOMETRY='POINT'
    Destination: {Database_File},vmfeat_foi_point

### Translate MapInfo table to CSV

    [Vicmap Reference Table - VMADD_ACCESS_TYPE]
    Source: {Vicmap_Reference_Folder}\ADDRESS_ACCESS_TYPE.tab
    Destination: {Output_CSV_Folder}\VMADD_ACCESS_TYPE.csv

### Import non-spatial MapInfo TAB file into SQLite database

    [Vicmap Parcel-Property]
    Source: {Vicmap_Property_Folder}\PARCEL_PROPERTY.tab
    Destination: {Database_File},VMPROP_PARCEL_PROPERTY
    GeometryType: NONE
    SpatialIndex: NO
    Index: parcel_pfi,property_pfi

### Update an existing SQLite table

    [Update PC_Council_Property_Address]
    OGRInfoOnly: true
    Destination: {Database_File},dummy
    SQLFile: Tasks\Swan Hill\SQL\Swan Hill PC Council Rural Address.sql

### Delete a table from a SQLite file

    [Vicmap Vegetation - Remove Tree Density]
    OGRInfoOnly: true
    SQL: drop table vmveg_tree_density
    Destination: {Database_File},dummy

### Zip up output

    [General Settings]
    ZipFilePath: {Output_Folder}/PIQA Export.zip
    ZipSession: ZipFile('{ZipFilePath}', 'a', ZIP_DEFLATED)

    [PIQA Parcel Export]
    Source: {PlaceLabDB}
    SQLFile: {ParcelSQLFile}
    Destination: {Output_Folder}/PIQA Parcel Export.CSV
    PostCommand: {ZipSession}.write('{Destination}')

    [PIQA Zip Finalisation]
    Command: {ZipSession}.close()
    [Display in Windows Explorer]
    Command: startfile('{Output_Folder}\\')
